hi guys what's up welcome back to my
channel I was away last week as you guys
know I didn't post a video because
today's your not vacuum okay maybe
people try to push through and I hope
the audio is not that bad but yeah so I
wasn't here last week because I was busy
opening up the doors to my fitness
program for petite women called the
petite power program the doors for
Ruhlman are officially open and they're
only open a few times a year so you have
if you have any interest at all in
learning about a fitness program for
petite women includes nutrition workouts
community coaching all that stuff check
the link in the description below and
then other than that we'll just hop into
today's video which is oh my god that
about you miss Oh literally every time I
go to like filming YouTube videos
one of my neighbors pulls out their
documents like they just like know what
I'm doing here so today I am going to
talk about 15 healthy habits it's
getting louder
15 healthy habits that changed my life
fingers crops actually just waited a few
minutes and I think they're done
vacuuming so let's just jump into it
okay so my healthy habit number one is
working out obviously I couldn't make
this list without including working out
in some form I make sure that I get some
form of workout movement in four times a
week minimum some weeks it doesn't
happen some weeks I do a little bit more
but overall I've just found that making
sure that I get movement in is going to
make me feel so much better in the short
term and the long term and every type of
term I just will always feel better this
is a small N channel app for all which
is all about fitness and health and
lifestyle so it's really really
important to me that I maintain a
workout schedule and I found that the
morning works really well for me I used
to work out in the evenings a few years
ago but when I switched the mornings it
just became so much easier and I totally
understand that some people just don't
have the flexibility to be able to do it
in the morning and that's okay
it's better to get in at night if that's
the case then nothing at all of course
but I've just found that it's really
really really great to get your
endorphins going start the day off
strong feeling good taking care of
yourself first first thing in the
morning so that when you go throughout
your day you just have a clear head so
that would be my number one healthy tip
would be working out consistently in the
morning for days week ok healthy habit
number two is making my bed in the
morning so this used to be something
that I am guilty of not I used to not do
it
but Gary and I moved in together about a
year and a half ago and he's like very
adamant about making the bed in the
morning he always wants us to make it he
makes it or I make it but nowadays he
actually leaves an hour earlier than me
like he'll get up earlier than me in the
morning like 6:00 am and leave for work
and so I'm the last one to get out of
bed so I end up making the bed every
morning
but it's become really key for me I
don't know I look forward to it in a
weird way because it like solidifies
that the day I started it I'm out of bed
and I am like I'm ready to go and it's
also nice because I do work from home a
lot so it's really nice to just have a
tiny space see that like the bed is made
and taken care of and everything's like
clean and also Gary pointed this out to
me his the theory is that when you start
your day off doing one thing that's
really easy really simple it
automatically gets the ball rolling for
you to feel productive and feel like
you're gonna have a good day and you're
gonna get a lot done okay tip number
three so I used to be the person who
went grocery shopping which is what most
people do and I would spend a lot of
time you know walking to the store in
New York it was like 10 blocks away so I
walked to the store do all my shopping
I'd get the same stuff pretty much every
time so I'm just like it was fast but it
was still 30 minutes of time that I am
that I spent in the grocery store and
the checkout line and then lugging at
home you know farmers carrying that's
the home if you guys don't know what
that is it's just an exercise where you
carry weight on either side of you which
is basically like carrying groceries
home and I last your switch to ordering
my groceries major major major lifesaver
I cannot recommend ordering your
groceries in some capacity enough unless
you have really really different things
each week it's so much easier to have a
saved card and just order the same thing
all of your staples each week get it
delivered to your house I used instacart
for a long time and I loved it I loved
instacart I found that it was only a few
extra dollars in my normal grocery
shopping which was pretty crazy when you
factor in the convenience and now I use
eat clean bro which is more of a meal
prep service so I just order
Chipotle check in for example order
turkey patties like I'll order all my
knee it's mostly in bulk and then I'll
cook fresh and local throughout the week
so I'll try to grab some vegetables in
the farmers market that's a good week if
I can make that happen but some weeks
it's obviously for us and vegetables
some weeks I am ordering vegetables from
eat clean bro it really depends I do try
to eat fresh I do try to go to the
grocery store still and get like little
things a little bit fresh spinach or
I'll get some eggs egg whites but for
the most part buying staples on
instacart and ordering the groceries has
saved me so much time and it's also just
streamlined my entire meal prepping
process ok healthy have it number four
is one that is really important to me
and that's that I stopped drinking
coffee and I switched to matcha
okay so I can't believe that I am NOT a
coffee drinker anymore I used to be
obsessed of coffee even from a really
young age I love the smell of coffee I
love the look of coffee that tastes of
coffee the texture I don't even know if
copy
texture but I was like a coffee addict I
I'm not just for the high or the
caffeine buzz I'm really genuinely just
loved coffee like they even love coffee
flavored ice cream coffee flavored
chocolate like I love coffee and I quit
it somehow because there was a time in
my life where I was having terrible
terrible some cakes chronically all the
time I cut it out and I stopped having
some cakes like all together and I used
to be like a stomachache girl so I quit
coffee and I really had a much less
stomachaches I had less acidic acidic
acidic stomach less sour stomach and I
had way less anxiety which is something
that I struggled with a few years ago
with my job and just I was always
anxious we're not always but I just
always felt super stressed or kind of
like on high alert and when I stopped
during coffee
it literally when went away after it had
left my system and I had no idea that
coffee had been affecting me that way so
I did switch coffee out for matcha so I
still drink caffeine but matcha has a
chemical in it that releases the
caffeine in a slower kind of like drips
you drip-feed do caffeine rather than
getting like the hit all at once that is
also why matcha was the choice of drink
for Japanese samurai hundreds of
hundreds of years ago maybe even
thousands I'm not sure and I also kind
of liked that fact because obviously I
used to be a internationally ranked
fencer and I was fencing was a big part
my life and I thought it was funny and
cool that like samurais used to drink it
and now I drink it I don't know I'm just
a nerd I guess but I love the way it
tastes I'm obsessed with it it's like
it's literally one of the things that I
look forward to the most is drinking
matcha I have been using bulletproof MCT
brain octane it's a healthy fat that I
add to it to just get more healthy fats
in my day
I've also been adding an acacia fiber to
it which I'll talk
about more later sometimes I'll add two
scoops of vital protein as a collagen
just to get some protein in it and
generally I have just been loving it I
always put cinnamon on top and it's just
like the perfect little metabolic boost
that I need for the day without the
anxiety and the sour stomach okay tip
five or healthy habits five is cooking
with spices so I cook with spices as
much as possible I've found that spices
add a lot of flavor to food make it more
variable for example you can cook
chicken and so many different flavors
using different spices and the added
benefit of spices for petite women is
that it has a metabolism boosting effect
a lot of them and that would be any
spice like a spicy spice I should say
like Cayenne or like black peppers
pepper type spices and also cumin
I love cumin I love cumin cayenne are
probably the ones to marry so many good
spices and it just makes your food taste
great okay healthy habit number six is I
carry a collagen protein with me
everywhere I go
literally I love collagen I think it's
so great
obviously it's known for its sort of
skin and nail strengthening effects but
for me well the reason why I love it is
because I have torn ligaments I have a
four minutes in my knee I have a torn
ligament and I hit my labor of tear I
don't know if you guys can hear that
Harley dudes an outsider
crazy loud so I this is all residual
fencing there's like a hundred bikers on
but not Harley it's like bicycles going
by but I hear Harley is so we do
political vibe I use vital proteins
collagen it's great because two scoops
is 18 grams of protein so that's like
almost a full meals worth of protein in
for the day and if you're trying to eat
a higher protein diets build muscle then
this can help a lot and then I was also
saying I I love that it helps your
ligaments and it helps some of your you
know just repair and strengthen
ligaments in your body and you can bring
it when you travel which makes getting
your protein up really easy when you're
traveling and the vital proteins one it
dissolves really really easily into
anything like water
matcha oatmeal yogurt and it's
flavorless so you can virtually just add
it to anything that you're eating and it
you won't taste it healthy habit number
seven is drinking three liters to one
gallon of water per day I know it sounds
like a lot and it will feel like a lot
if you're not used to drinking this much
water but I used to just drink like two
cups of water a day or whenever I was
thirsty and I was so severely dehydrated
I had no idea and when I started
drinking about three liters a day which
is one of these bad boys times three or
a gallon which would be four of these
and this is pretty big like in my head I
saw some improvement my life all over I
felt less bloated when I wake up in the
morning I would digest my food better I
slept better I truly will never stop I'm
drinking this much water now I used to
think it was just BS like Oh drink more
water blah a lot no it's so important
it's
so foreign and I'll just say just try it
out just try it out and guess you will
have to go to the bathroom more
frequently but it's so worth it and your
body will adjust just don't drink a ton
of water right before you go to bed
because obviously you won't be able to
sleep throughout the night
okay healthy habit eight is stretching
for 10-15 minutes after every workout so
I used to be able to do the full splits
back when I was fencing and I still can
thanks to the fact that I just spend
literally ten minutes max doing a couple
basic stretches after every single time
I workout so no matter if I do an upper
body workout a lower body workout total
body whatever it is whenever I'm done I
make sure I go into the studio room in
the gym and I just cool down and I do a
hamstring stretch I work on my splits I
do you know hip stretches I stretch my
quads I try to stretch all the muscles I
use and it helps me first of all recover
better so I'm not a store and second of
all it's been able to allow me to
maintain my flexibility for years and I
basically don't even spend that much
time stretching like it's like if you
just spend five minutes after workout
stretching you're gonna have so much
more mobility and flexibility because
you're doing it when your muscles are
warm from the workouts you have more of
that that you can use and then it helps
also recover so that you're not sore the
next day
okay healthy habit number nine is
sleeping more so in college I didn't
need a lot of sleep I could pretty much
I remember freshman year I could I could
do work start working at 9 p.m. and work
till 3:00 a.m. and get up the next day
at 8 and be totally fine and that
changed my senior junior senior year I
just started getting really foggy at
night I couldn't focus as much and it's
pretty much been like that ever since
and so what I have done to help this as
I've started sleeping a minimum of eight
hours per night I was already a huge
believer in sleep because there was this
guy I should look his name up he was
known as like the sleep professor where
I went to college at Cornell and he had
helped a bunch of athlete's
achieve really incredible results
notably a figure a skier at the time
just by introducing them to the power of
sleep and he recommended that all of
them athletes get 10 hours of sleep and
when I started doing that I saw a huge
change in my mental clarity it gave me
so much more energy I just felt happier
better and yeah it just it's so obvious
but it's just one of the things that's
not fun to do but once you get into the
habit of doing it becomes easier so I
try to get to bed earlier so I can get
up earlier and workout and having that
minimum of eight hours has just helped
me feel fresher and more productive and
happier
okay healthy habit number 10 is a
short-girl pack it is buying 7/8
lengths 7/8 length leggings instead of
full-length or cropped so I basically
whenever I go on a website and I'm
looking for workout clothes or anything
I checked them out 7/8 length for
example if you go on like girlfriend
collective they have a bunch of
different in cm lengths and they have an
inseam they're falling for example as 28
inches but they're 7/8 length it just
says 23 and 3/4 I think and then if you
look at Lululemon they have the Alliance
and they'll have the blue line 1 which
is a 28 inseam and then they have a
Lululemon a lion too and that's a 25
inseam which is like 7 8 so doing nine
is just help me save money because they
don't have to get things hemmed and also
just looks better and it hits the ankle
a really nice place on your body and I
think it's healthy and happy to wear
clothes that fit you that make you feel
good ok healthy habit number or real
number 11 have a skincare routine so I
used to really not even know what to do
with my
and it took me so many years figuring
out what worked for me and what works
for me might not work for you because we
have different skin types I for a long
time had dehydrated not dry dehydrated
skin that was causing overactive oil
production or excessive oil production
in my t-zone and also caused adult acne
which was caused by hormones but also
the excess oil production was not
helping the situation and when I started
to use a facial oil first of all use
toners use a vitamin C use sunscreen
basically have a routine my whole skin
changed my life change and I love my
skincare routine when I wake up in the
morning what I do is I go in the
bathroom if I'm going to work out I do
not actually wash my face immediately
because I don't want to strip my skin of
all the natural oils so I actually just
work out in the morning you know before
washing my face I just brush my teeth
and go and then when I come back that's
when I'll wash my face with a cleanser
I'll do a toner then I put on the
vitamin C serum while it's so wet
because you want your skin to absorb the
vitamin C it doesn't as well as if it's
dry and then I add a gel it's a
water-based moisturizer instead of oil
because I found that's good for acne
prone skin and then what do I do I add I
mix in a facial oil I mixed up with an
SPS and I put it on and that routine
makes me feel really really good and
it's cut my skin clear and then at night
I wash again I tone I use a toner and
then I do a 2% hyaluronic acid and then
a 100% plant-based squalene on top and I
go to bed
and this keeps my skin so moisturize and
it's just nice to have a routine that
makes you feel good and you know just
like massaging your face and like just
having that moment of like it's the end
of the day and I'm like taking care of
myself like taking my makeup off it
feels really good and it makes me feel
like I'm taking care of myself which has
made me happy so having a skincare
routine no matter what yours is I highly
recommend okay healthy habit number 12
is to prepare for your day the day
before so every night before you go to
bed I basically look at my day the next
day and I mentally think about what I
want to get out of it what do I want to
achieve what I want to get done what do
I want to enjoy what you know what is
the plan I'm a planner it's helped me
manage my life and and it just helps me
sleep better it helps me feel less
anxious if I brand it down and I have a
plan so that is a great tip if you have
to apply to sleep try to just write down
all your thoughts on a paper I plan the
next day out so that you can fully just
be present when you go to bed and just
focus on rest
okay healthy habit number 13 Missy need
more healthy fats so I before I started
tracking macros I was not eating a lot
of fat and I had no idea when I started
tracking macros I found out that I was
eating probably 30 grams of fat per day
which is really really really really low
especially for us women fats are really
really important for our hormones and to
have a healthy balanced hormone so when
I started eating more olive oil or
coconut oil more flax seeds more chia
seeds more to do avocado peanut butter
when I started integrating that into my
diet more I just felt so much better I
feel way more full because it is it's
the longest to digest in your stomach
fat as a macronutrient and I just felt
overall way healthier so I always make
sure I have at least 14 between 10 and
15 grams of fat at each meal
the fat and that helps keep me full and
also satiated healthy habit number 14 is
to prepare your meals ahead of time not
just like in a meal prep way but
mentally this helps me so much if I am
in a phase where I'm using my Fitness
Pal which I actually use it a lot just
to plan out like what am i eating I will
just open the app the night before or
the morning of and I'll budget
everything that I'm eating for the day
and and that helps me feel like I don't
have to worry about food at all like I
could just I have a plan I know that I'm
gonna have this for breakfast I was
pretty much have the same breakfast so
it's easy but then lunch and then my
third meal between lunch dinner and then
my dinner meal and this gives me from
first of all this keeps me from like
overeating because I'm distracted or I
don't know you know all the reasons we
overeat it stressed or something I find
that if you just write it down you plan
out where you're eating it's easier to
stick to it's easier to commit to and
this is also because I know exactly how
much I'll I'm needing right now based on
my activity level for the day based on
my goals if I'm in maintenance if I'm
working on building my metabolism or if
I'm basically going to like a little cut
or something right now I'm just a
maintenance so I'm just trying to eat at
my appetite regular appetite levels and
it helps me also make better decisions
healthier decisions about food if I plan
it out ahead of time and also if you are
tracking your macros and you don't plan
ahead sometimes you can get stuck at
night with really weird macros like
you'll have like you'll need like 20
grams of protein and like 10 grams of
fat and like 2 carbs and you're like
well what am I going
and so to avoid having weird meals like
that if you balance your meals
throughout the day then you'll make sure
that your last meal is really delicious
and not just like a random bowl of like
chicken and like I don't know I would
you know so if you've ever kind of
macros and you know it could get weird
so planning ahead helps a lot a lot a
lot and also if you're prepping in
general if you just meal prep all of
your proteins for the week you're going
to be in so much better place and just
make sure your fridge is stocked it's
like healthy food that you want to eat
you're going to have less stress and
you're going to be able to just choose
things to fuel your body and feel good
ok so healthy habit number 15 is to do
something that changes your frame of
mind once in a while so I don't know if
this is just me but sometimes I get
stuck in this mental zone where if it's
usually if I've been looking at the
screen for too long or been to focus on
one task I do something to change my
energy and change my fare online so this
is either going for a bike ride or I'll
go outside to go a really quick walk
I'll call my mom because I love her I
want a doctor I will do something
different
Gary and I just bought a Nintendo switch
which is so funny and so fun so I've
been playing Zelda which I'm not even a
gamer or anything that has been so so
fun I love it or I'll just read for 15
minutes basically do something to shift
the energy so that when you go back to
the task that you're at or like whatever
you're doing you have a little bit more
energy and you're in a different frame
of mind and you have a different
perspective and it just has been helpful
for me probably because I work from home
and I can end up working a lot so that
is all me a lot
all right you guys I hope that you liked
this video please give it a like and
subscribe for more content tailored to
petite women if you enjoyed it and I
will see you next time
remember the doors to and Lowell and
mighty power open just for the next few
days which you're looking for a program
for us petite woman and not some cookie
cutter program check the link in the
description for more information and
learn how you can sign up and join us
we're starting August 1st all right you
guys have a great rest of your day and
I'll see you soon
[Music]
you